1. Install the `cfde-submit` tool in a virtual environment [as recommended](https://docs.nih-cfde.org/en/latest/cfde-submit/docs/install/).
2. Your DCC needs to be registered in the portal and have the correct permissions set up to be able to submit datapackages. The [OnBoarded DCC ](https://app.nih-cfde.org/chaise/recordset/#registry/CFDE:dcc@sort(RID)) page in the portal lists all the registered DCCs. Contact the helpdesk: support@cfde.atlassian.net to register your DCC if not on the list.
3. The `cfde-submit` requires the DCC's unique identifier for making submission. You can find your DCC's identifier in the [OnBoarded DCC page](https://app.nih-cfde.org/chaise/recordset/#registry/CFDE:dcc@sort(RID)). It is in the form of `cfde_registry_dcc:dcc_name` where `dcc_name` is replaced by short form of your DCC's name.
4. Visit https://app.nih-cfde.org/ and click **Log In** (top right corner).
5. Click on your name (top right corner) and select **My Profile** from the drop down menu. Ensure you have the correct permissions by checking the value under **Groups** to indicate submitter for your DCC. 
6. First step for submission is authorization. Enter the following command: `cfde-submit login`
7. A browser will automatically open with a Globus page requesting permission for **CFDE Native App**. Click "Allow". When using `cfde-submit` on a remote machine not associated with a web browser, a web address is displayed. Copy and paste the web address in a web browser and login if prompted using the same credentials used for setup. Copy and paste the code from the web browser back to the shell to complete login.
8. Successful login will result in a `You are authenticated and your tokens have been cached.` message on the prompt.
9. Submit your instance: `cfde-submit run DATA-PATH [OPTIONS]`, where `DATA-PATH` is the path to the directory where your C2M2 instance is located. Find out more about the different options on the [documentation page](https://docs.nih-cfde.org/en/latest/cfde-submit/docs/#run).
10. The `cfde-submit run` will exit after your C2M2 instance has been uploaded. To check the status of the ingest process use: `cfde-submit status [OPTIONS]`. You can specify either the particular submission or the Flow ID using the [options flag](https://docs.nih-cfde.org/en/latest/cfde-submit/docs/#status).
11. To view the submission, go to https://app.nih-cfde.org/ and click on **Data Review** tab which is visible after login. Your latest submission should appear on top of the list. The **Ingest Status** located under **Status Summary** will indicate the status of your submission.
12. Successful submission with results in the **Ingest Status** being updated to `content ready for review` and appearance of links to "Browse Data" and "Summary Charts" in the **Review Content** row under **Status Summary**. 